Slide 1
Good morning everyone I’m Divyansh and I welcome you to my presentation

Slide 2
On the topic Natural Resources and associated problems

Slide 3
So if I ask you, what are natural resources? Most likely you’ll say coal and petroleum that power your cars, phones, and other devices

Slide 4
But actually everything that you use every single day has certainly come from multiple natural resources. A few problems related to that, which aren’t heard as commonly are, (1) Excessive fishing which results in depleting marine life, hunting animals to the point of extinction and even excessive irrigation, yes excessive irrigation is a real thing.

Slide 5
But talking about ALLL the natural resources and ALLL their problems will take a long time so let’s stick to the convention

Slide 6
So what is the convention?
As I stated earlier
It’s coal petroleum and natural gas
But why?

Slide 7
Because of two words 
Non Renewable 
These resources once depleted, either cannot be replaced or take millions of years to form.

Slide 8
So what are the problems that we face, today?
(1) We are heavily dependent on coal and petroleum for each and every daily need of ours. Nearly everything we do requires coal or petroleum. whether it be going to the market in your vehicle or even turning on a light bulb.
(2) It is a finite resource and it will eventually run out completely in the near future
(3) and also, it is very very bad for our planet and our environment due to its massive carbon footprint

Slide 9
Now that we know the problems, what effects have those problems shown?
(1) global warming, ice caps melting, ozone layer depleting, increased forest fires, increased droughts and floods
(2) due to coal being the main source of electricity and coal supply chain not being adequate enough, we experience regular power outages
(3) also, have you seen the fuel prices? Petrol prices reached 110 rupees per litre! It’s simple demand and supply. We have a high demand for it, but it is a finite resource and supply is limited, thus rising the price up.
This point also correlates with our dependence on non renewable resources.

Slide 10
What is the solution?
Renewable energy

Slide 11
What is renewable energy?
Solar power, hydropower, wind turbines, earth as in geothermal energy, and also all natural waste as biomass energy.

Slide 12
What have we learnt from this presentation?
We talked about natural resources and it’s two classifications (non renewable and renewable)
We talked about
The problem
The effects
And the solution
So we’re smart now

Slide 13
I hope you’ll make some changes in your own lives to leave a little less carbon footprint day by day.

And
That is it from my side,

Slide 14
If any of you have any doubts or you want me to answer something
I’m open to questions